---
title:  "Stories from the hack - Ethernet Education, HP416s"
description: "A summary of the Ethernet education, HP416s nad other projects"
date:   2016-11-26
categories: [hackfest]
tags: [hack, day2]
---

# Ethernet education

This use case aims to bring online learning tools and open access repositories to Ethiopia. The participants, ETHERNET, are working on deploying a new OpenEDx instance for online courses, and a new Invenio instance to act as their Open Access repository. They wish to reduce the distance in higher-education instititues, by offering OER material online. They have already customised their collections and catetogories on their OAR, as well as some of the site metadata and description. They will be developing a central portal for providing acces to both the OAR and the EDX instance.  

## Next Steps

  * link the material in OAR to the EDx courses (no courses have been created yet)
  * Interact with OAR programamatically using php on their portal.

# HP416s

This is an HPC use case which wants to use the Common Workflow Language (CWL). The workflows will execute a list of applicaitons which have been described in their `project.yml` part. CWL a DSL which uses python to create workflows. A CWL executor is needed for FutureGateway.

What is also needed is `cwltool` itself, as well as the applications which need to be executed by the workflow actors.  These have been collected in the project metadata. It's not clear yet whether they need a web-portal, however some tools necessary to run the workflow against the FutureGatway would be useful, such as a python script.


## Next Steps

  * CWLtool and the list of  applications needed  should be added to CODE-RADE
  * Investigate creating a FG executor for CWL.


# AgriSERVICOM

AgriSERVICOM has a complex data collection, analysis and distribution model, essentially working with crowd-sourced data. They need to interact with an open access repository. It's possible that they will need to process the data via FutureGatway, and this idea is under discussion at the moment. It's not clear which applications they need. It is very likely that they will need gLibrary to create metadata catalogues of the incoming data before it is published though.

They are working on a portal to allow the collection of data, and the representation of the data assets in the open access repository. They had some problems interacting with OAR (upload via API), so they concentrated on developing the portal. The issue with OAR upload however has been overcome, using the warmups examples.

## Next Steps

  * Bring the portal to a working state
  * Investigate the usage of Federated Access.
  * Enable programmatic upload to the OAR via the portal.
