---
title:  "Stories from the hack - Plantics, ACEPRD, GWAS"
date:   2016-11-25
categories: [hackfest]
tags: [hack, day1]
---

# Stories

These are the stories so far, from the Lagos Hackfest.

#  Plantics

Plantisc is a php-based website to determine maximal growth parameters in plants based on a regression model, using a series of hormones. The regression is implemented using NumPy in a python script and data is stored in csv format on the webserver itself. It was suggested to continue the development of the interactive version of the webserver, but to extend the study to take the form of a parameter scan. This parameter scan could be handed off to computing infrastructures via FutureGateway. Results could also easily be stored in gLibrary, which could be used to serve a local cache and construct the web pages of the plantisc portal - the parameter could also use gLibrary as a metadata service to store the results.

## Next Steps

  * Finish the php website
  * store data in gLibrary repository


# ACEPRD

This is a repository of plant images. They have a DJango application with a few levels of auth. Registered users can interact with data. The data should be stored in OAR. They have a working example of uploading files from their code (in Python)

## Next steps

  * Federated authentication
  * website in Github

# GWAS

GWAS needs to run bioinformatic workloads. They have a tomcat server attached to their HPC head  node, and plan to use FutureGateway to submit workflows. Their workflow is done using NextFlow, a DSL which allows the separation of workflows from their submission endpoints, allowing workflows to become portable. The same Nextflow workflow can be submitted thus on different kinds of computing services.

## Next Steps

  * Install Future Gateway components locally
  * Create NextFlow application in the testing and integration FG
  * Investigate a NextFlow executor for FG
